Start rewriting the reactive documentation (#17675)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/mutiny-primer.adoc

The Mutiny event-driven paradigm is tailored for this.
When the I/O operation completes successfully, the Uni that represents it emits an item event.
When it fails, it emits a failure event.
The continuation is simply and naturally expressed using the event-driven API.

== Mutiny through Examples

Many Quarkus extensions expose Mutiny APIs. In this section, we use the MongoDB extension to illustrate how to use Mutiny.

Let's imagine a simple structure representing an element from the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Periodic_table[periodic table]:

[source, java]
----
public class Element {

   public String name;
   public String symbol;
   public int position;

   public Element(String name, String symbol, int position) {
       this.name = name;
       this.symbol = symbol;
       this.position = position;
   }

   public Element() {
        // Use by JSON mappers
   }
}
----

This structure contains the name, symbol, and position of the element.
To retrieve and store elements into a Mongo collection, you can use the following code:

[source, java]
----
@ApplicationScoped
public class ElementService {

   @Inject

>    ReactiveMongoClient client;

Reviewer: Let's use constructor injection as there are still people who think that CDI can't work with it :(

Author: Good idea! 
I need to use this feature more (especially when doing live coding)

   ReactiveMongoCollection<Element> collection;

>    @PostConstruct

Reviewer: If we use constructor injection, this isn't needed

       collection = client.getDatabase("quarkus")
               .getCollection("elements", Element.class);
   }

   public void add(Element element) {
       Uni<InsertOneResult> insertion = collection.insertOne(element);
       insertion
           .onItem().transform(r -> r.getInsertedId().asString())
           .subscribe().with(
               result -> System.out.println("inserted " + result),
               failure -> System.out.println("D'oh" + failure));
   }

   public void getAll() {
       collection.find()
           .subscribe().with(
              element -> System.out.println("Element: " + element),
             failure -> System.out.println("D'oh! " + failure),
             () -> System.out.println("No more elements")
       );
   }

}
----

First, the Mongo client is injected.
Note that it uses the reactive variant (`io.quarkus.mongodb.reactive.ReactiveMongoClient`).
In the initialize method, we retrieve and store the collection in which elements will be inserted.

The `add` method inserts an element in the collection.
It receives the element as a parameter and uses the reactive API of the collection.
Interacting with the database involves I/Os.

> The reactive principles forbid blocking to wait for the interaction to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reactive principles forbid blocking while waiting for the interaction to complete.
```

In Quarkus some extensions deal with the subscription for you.
For example, in RESTEasy Reactive your HTTP methods can return a Uni or a Multi, and RESTEasy Reactive handles the subscription.

== Mutiny Patterns

The example from the last section was simplistic on purpose.
Let's have a look at a few common patterns.

=== Observing events

You can observe the various kind of events using:

`on{event}().invoke(ev -> System.out.println(ev));`

For example, for items use:
`onItem().invoke(item -> ...);`

For failure, use:
`onFailure().invoke(failure -> ...)`

The `invoke` method is synchronous.
Sometimes you need to execute an asynchronous action.
In this case use `call`, as in: `onItem().call(item -> someAsyncAction(item))`.
Note that `call` does not change the item, it just calls an asynchronous action, and when this one completes, it emits the original item downstream.

=== Transforming item

The first instrumental pattern consists of transforming the item events you receive.
As we have seen in the previous section, it could indicate the successful insertion, or the elements stored in the database.

Transforming an item is done using: `onItem().transform(item -> ....)`.

> More detail about transformation can be found in the https://smallrye.io/smallrye-mutiny/getting-started/transforming-items[Mutiny documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More details about transformation can be found in the https://smallrye.io/smallrye-mutiny/getting-started/transforming-items[Mutiny documentation].
```

=== Sequential composition

Sequential composition allows chaining dependent asynchronous operations. This is achieved using `onItem().transformToUni(item -> ...)`.
Unlike `transform`, the function passed to `transformToUni` returns a Uni.

[source, java]
----
Uni<String> uni1 = …
uni1
.onItem().transformtoUni(item -> anotherAsynchronousAction(item));
----

More details about asynchronous transformation can be found in the https://smallrye.io/smallrye-mutiny/getting-started/transforming-items-async[Mutiny documentation].

=== Failure handling

> So far we only handle the item events, but handling failure is essential. Y
> ou can handle failures using `onFailure()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far we only handle the item events, but handling failure is essential. You can handle failures using `onFailure()`.
```
